Thank you for joining month 29 of the www.onegameamonth.com challenge.

This month's new 250xp theme word achievement is CHILDHOOD.

Remember pure play - when you make up the rules as you go? Where you repeat something over and over just because it makes you laugh or feels good? Where you keep playing till it's time for dinner?

Remember playgrounds? Invented games with balls or sticks or strings or shadows? Even the simplest games can be fun - one rule wonders, from tag to pure make-believe.

"Games are for kids" they say, even though the stats tell us most gamers are adults. We gamedevs don't generally fail at this but we all know grownups who are now too self-conscious or too miserable to remember how to play. To just have fun, without a big goal in mind.

However you choose to incorporate the optional theme in your game this month, try to embrace that silly, open-minded, fresh-faced wonder and exuberance of your childhood.

If you're trying to come up with cool idea, dive into old memories of your own childhood. You could make an homage to a game you used to love playing, or one that just captures that "feel".

Make something immature, or something that allows you to break the rules. Make a toy instead of a game; something fun that doesn't necessarily have a win or lose condition.

Perhaps you could try your hand at making a game that the whole family could enjoy - try to include gamers from 3 to 103. Can you create a g-rated game with dynamic difficulty that any age could enjoy? With ultra simple controls that even a kid could manage?

Allow yourself the fun of simple art - crayons, thick drippy paint, or building blocks. Throw a slide in there or a swing, put in a tree you can climb.

If you have one of your own, make a game for your kid. If you're still a kid, make a game for your younger self.

This month, continue to train up your gamedev muscles by embracing your inner child. Make up the rules, get messy, enjoy repetition and simplicity, and do what feels fun, no matter how simple.

Good luck, and have FUN!

Christer Kaitila aka @McFunkypants
twitter.com/McFunkypants
