Welcome to www.OneGameAMonth.com, November edition!

Wise people often say: the one constant in life is change.

Nothing ever stays the same - we're all growing.
Our gamedev skills are evolving. Our life goals are shifting.
Our dreams are growing ever closer to becoming a reality.

Can you feel your gamedev muscles getting stronger?
Can you feel your gamedev speed accellerating?
Can you feel your gamedev career growing?

I bet a lot of you can. Many of you have already published 10 or more games,
and to the hardcore gamedevs who have been disciplined enough to do this
for 9 months in a row, I salute you. This stick-with-it-ness is one
of the many keys to finding success in the indie games industry.

Even if you just joined us, the process of monthly projects - even if they are
simple weekend game jams - is addicting. Why? Because even though making games
is a lot of hard work, it's even more FUN.

I've had many questions from 1gam-ers about next year. Some of you are worried that
I will shut down the site. Good news: I plan to do the very opposite and will be
releasing onegameamonth version 2.0 in January, complete with new features, a more
streamlined submissions process, new achievements and a way cooler frontpage.

I just added a suggestion box to the site and I would like everybody to send me ideas
for #1GAM version 2.0. Send me your ideas to bring things to the next level.

We don't want this site to become a game portal - newgrounds and kongregate and
all the app stores all do a good job of that already.

The focus here is on the PEOPLE - on all of us together, as fellow gamedevs.
New features should focus on the developers more than the games.

I just finished a huge gamedev contract gig and I finally have time to
give some love to the site again. I'm looking forward to implementing some
awesome changes to the site in the next few weeks.

The 100% optional theme word for November is: CHANGE.

Keep up the amazing work, everyone.
I'm so grateful to be enjoying this crazy ride with all of you.

- McFunkypants
